So now we're able to communicate back and we are actually updating our core goals array in the app component.
But what you see is despite the array being updated and clearly the new goal is part of the array our
output here on the screen didn't change.
And that leads us to a core concept of React state react does not re render D.J. has X code and therefore
the real UI all the time when ever some event is triggered anywhere in the app.
So just because I clicked the spot in here does not mean that react will re render the entire screen
just to make sure it doesn't miss any data change.
This is not how react works.
Instead in the end you have to tell react when it should re render and you do so by using a concept
called State Discourse goals array.
Here is a regular javascript array put in other words react totally ignore is it.
We have to tell react that it should not ignore it and dead instead.
Whenever we changed array it should update D.
UI The J is X code off the component in which we changed it.
So in this case of the app component.
Now to do that we import one other thing from the react package.
And that's use state of function built into the react library a so-called react hook and you'll learn
more about hooks in my react The Complete Guide.
Course of course a function which we can't execute inside all functional components and only instead
of functional components in class based components you also have a state management mechanism not focus
of this course here but you could also do it there but in functional components you use these hook functions
as they are called all these functions starting with use at the beginning to manage state so to manage
data which when changed should lead to the UI of that component in which you manage the state to re
render.
So here in the app component I don't want to call use state and to use state.
I pass this array here.
This is my so-called initial state.
Then I can get rid of that concern for now.
This tells react that this component has some state and that this is my initial state by the way.
You can also have multiple different state pieces and they're all watched independently.
But here I only have one main state and that is my array of goals and I tail react that I have this
state and that this is my initial state.
Now of course I want to get access to that initial state storage in some content so that I can use it
in the rest of the component because cause gold is now missing everywhere.
So you state all the returns something it returns an array of exactly two elements.
The first element always is our latest state snapshot.
So either our initial state or once we changed it.
The updated state and the second element offered array returned by use state is a function that allows
us to update that state.
Replace it with a new value and tell react that it should re render.
So here I will use array D structuring by using square brackets on the left side of my equal time here
to extract these two elements I have in the array returned by use state and there are always exactly
two elements so it does not depend on which kind of state data data you pass here.
You state gives you an array with exactly two elements.
First element your core and state.
So in my case my array here.
Second element of function to update the state.
Therefore typically we named as set and then any name of your show choice.
Set course goals in my case.
So I have two constants created with the help of U.S. State first constant holds my state snapshot.
Second constant actually holds a function which we can call to update that state snapshot and we will
call that function here and add new goal handler can call set course goals here.
And now I want to update my course goals by adding a new goal.
Now a simple form of doing that is to simply then use my old course goals and call code cat here not
push because push modifies the existing item instead set course goals.
Once a brand new Array which will replace the old array and cone cat will also add an item to an array
but it will return a new array to which this item was added.
So it gives us a brand new array doesn't touch the old one and we then pass the brand new array to set
course goals and react will then use that brand new array to under the hood replace the old array in
its internally managed state and it will re render this component.
Once it did so and therefore update this course goals constant with the new array in the next render
cycle which means that react will execute this function here and therefore when it does so it will reflect
that new data in our JS X code.
So here I want to call cat my new goal and if we now save this and I click Add goal you see new goals
are added to the list because react now re renders this screen or the parts that need to be re rendered
whenever we update our state.
Now how exactly react re renders is on is not the focus of this course.
You can learn that and dedicated resources like the official docs or my complete guide.
For now it just suffices to note that react magically and efficiently does re render the page or the
parts of the page that need re rendering based on the state changes we applied.